examples/with-markdoc/README.md, before:

# Astro Example: Markdoc (experimental)

This starter showcases the experimental Markdoc integration.

```
npm create astro@latest -- --template with-markdoc
```

[![Open in StackBlitz](https://developer.stackblitz.com/img/open_in_stackblitz.svg)](https://stackblitz.com/github/withastro/astro/tree/latest/examples/with-markdoc)
[![Open with CodeSandbox](https://assets.codesandbox.io/github/button-edit-lime.svg)](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/withastro/astro/tree/latest/examples/with-markdoc)

> 🧑‍🚀 **Seasoned astronaut?** Delete this file. Have fun!

## 🚀 Project Structure

Inside of your Astro project, you'll see the following folders and files:

```
/
├── public/
├── src/
│   └── content/
        └── docs/
│           └── intro.mdoc
|       └── config.ts
│   └── components/
|       ├── Aside.astro
│       └── DocsContent.astro
│   └── layouts/
│       └── Layout.astro
│   └── pages/
│       └── index.astro
|   └── env.d.ts
├── astro.config.mjs
├── README.md
├── package.json
└── tsconfig.json
```

Markdoc (`.mdoc`) files can be used in content collections to author your Markdown content alongside Astro and server-rendered UI framework components (React, Vue, Svelte, and more). See `src/content/docs/` for an example file.

You can also apply Astro components and server-rendered UI components (React, Vue, Svelte, etc) to your Markdoc files. See `src/content/DocsContent.astro` for an example.

## 🧞 Commands

All commands are run from the root of the project, from a terminal:

| Command                | Action                                           |
| :--------------------- | :----------------------------------------------- |
| `npm install`          | Installs dependencies                            |
| `npm run dev`          | Starts local dev server at `localhost:3000`      |
| `npm run build`        | Build your production site to `./dist/`          |
| `npm run preview`      | Preview your build locally, before deploying     |
| `npm run astro ...`    | Run CLI commands like `astro add`, `astro check` |
| `npm run astro --help` | Get help using the Astro CLI                     |

## 👀 Want to learn more?

Feel free to check [our documentation](https://docs.astro.build) or jump into our [Discord server](https://astro.build/chat).

Commit message:

[Markdoc] New config format with runtime variable support! (#6653)
* deps: esbuild

* feat: support direct component imports for render!

* deps: add devalue back

* refactor: remove unused components prop

* refactor: load experimental assets config separately

* fix: upate Content type def to support props

* refactor: replace astro stub with inline data

* feat: pass through viteId to getRenderMod

* fix: add back $entry var with defaults convention

* chore: remove unneeded validateRenderProps

* chore: remove uneeded validateComponents

* fix: remove userMarkdocConfig prop

* chore: add helpful error for legacy config

* deps: kleur

* fix: add back `isCapitalized`

* fix: log instead of throw to avoid scary stacktrace

* chore: delete more old logic (nice)

* chore: delete MORE unused utils

* chore: comment on separate assets config

* chore: remove console.log

* chore: general code cleanup

* test: new render config

* docs: new README

* fix: add expect-error on astro:assets

* feat: add defineMarkdocConfig helper

* docs: update example README

* test: add runtime variable

* chore: lint

* chore: changeset

* chore: add component import deletion

* docs: add notes on Vite fork

* fix: astro check

* chore: add `.mts` to markdoc config formats

examples/with-markdoc/README.md, after:

# Astro Example: Markdoc (experimental)

This starter showcases the experimental Markdoc integration.

```
npm create astro@latest -- --template with-markdoc
```

[![Open in StackBlitz](https://developer.stackblitz.com/img/open_in_stackblitz.svg)](https://stackblitz.com/github/withastro/astro/tree/latest/examples/with-markdoc)
[![Open with CodeSandbox](https://assets.codesandbox.io/github/button-edit-lime.svg)](https://codesandbox.io/p/sandbox/github/withastro/astro/tree/latest/examples/with-markdoc)

> 🧑‍🚀 **Seasoned astronaut?** Delete this file. Have fun!

## 🚀 Project Structure

Inside of your Astro project, you'll see the following folders and files:

```
/
├── public/
├── src/
│   └── content/
        └── docs/
│           └── intro.mdoc
|       └── config.ts
│   └── components/Aside.astro
│   └── layouts/Layout.astro
│   └── pages/index.astro
|   └── env.d.ts
├── astro.config.mjs
├── markdoc.config.mjs
├── README.md
├── package.json
└── tsconfig.json
```

Markdoc (`.mdoc`) files can be used in content collections. See `src/content/docs/` for an example file.

You can also render Astro components from your Markdoc files using [tags](https://markdoc.dev/docs/tags). See the `markdoc.config.mjs` file for an example configuration.

## 🧞 Commands

All commands are run from the root of the project, from a terminal:

| Command                | Action                                           |
| :--------------------- | :----------------------------------------------- |
| `npm install`          | Installs dependencies                            |
| `npm run dev`          | Starts local dev server at `localhost:3000`      |
| `npm run build`        | Build your production site to `./dist/`          |
| `npm run preview`      | Preview your build locally, before deploying     |
| `npm run astro ...`    | Run CLI commands like `astro add`, `astro check` |
| `npm run astro --help` | Get help using the Astro CLI                     |

## 👀 Want to learn more?

Feel free to check [our documentation](https://docs.astro.build) or jump into our [Discord server](https://astro.build/chat).
